Paging: 
-------
Usually there is lot more virtual memory than real memory, the pages
must move back and forth betn real memory and backing store regularly, coming
into real memory when process needs to access them and then retreating to
backing store when not needed anymore. This movement is called paging.

Page fault:
-----------
When a program attemps to access a page which is not at that moment backed by
real memory, this is known as page fault.

When a page fault occurs, the kernel suspends the process, places the page into
a real page frame. This is called "paging in" or "faulting in" then resmes the
process.

Background:
----------
Process allocate memory in two major ways
by exec: Exec is the operation of creating virtual address space for a process,
   loading its basic program into it and executing the program. It is done by
   exec family of functions.
   this includes: code/text, data and bss segments
   Memory allocated by exec cannot be freed.

by programmatically: Once program begins to execute, it uses programmatic
	allocation to gain additional memory. It can be done in two ways. One is
	automatic and dynamic.
	Memory allocated by programmatically can be freed.

A process virtual address space is divided into segements. A segment is a
contiguous range of virtual addresses. Three imp segments are:

text segment: pgm insttructions and literals and static constants allocated by
	exec and stays same size for the life of virtual address space.

	data segment: is working sstorage for the program. It can be preallocated
	and preloaded by exec and the process can extend or shrink by resizing the
	data segment. Its lower end is fixed

	stack segment: contains program stack. It grows as stack gorws. but does not
	shrink when the stack shrinks.

mmap:
----
To determine the default size of a page the machine uses one should use:
size_t page_size = (size_t) sysconf (_SC_PAGESIZE);

mmap only works on entire pages of memory. Thus, addresses for mappingmust be
page-aligned, and length values will be rounded up.


/dev/mem:
---------
see man pages for: man mem
/dev/mem, /dev/kmem, /dev/port

To use /dev/mem to view and modify regular RAM on kernel:
Disable: CONFIG_STRICT_DEVMEM
pass the nopat kernel command line option for x86.

Traditionally, /dev/mem provided access to the entire physical address space,
	which includes ram but it also includes any memory mapped i/o devices. Man y
	modern kernels will be configured with CONFIG_STRICT_DEVMEM which restricts
	/dev/mem to memory mapped IO devices only.

Jargons in virtual memory/memory: 
---------------------------------
Swapping
Virtual Memory
Page replacement algorithms
Segmentation
Cache
TLB (Translation Lookup Buffers)
Page tables
Paging
Multilevel Page Tables
N Way Cache
Set Associative Cache


Clone():
--------
Clone() allows the child process to share parts of its execution context with
	the calling process, such as the virtual address space, the table of file
	descriptors, and the table of signal handlers.

	One use of clone() is to implement threads: multiple flows of control in a
	program that run concurrently in a shared address space.

fork()
------
fork() creates a new process by duplicating the calling process.

The child process and the parent process run in separate memory spaces.  At the
time of fork() both memory spaces have the same content.  Memory writes, file
mappings (mmap(2)), and unmappings (mun‐map(2)) performed by one of the
processes do not affect the other.

The only thing that is shared between the parent and the child process is the
text section which is unchangeable.
